We code information by modulating the energy flow.
Generally for free space EM waves: the range will decrease with frequency as losses increase, but transmission power and also minimum received signal levels are important.
Lower frequency waves are reflected off the ionosphere

Wave equation for a quantity varying both in space and time: $\frac{\partial^2 \psi}{\partial x^2}=\frac{1}{c^2}\frac{\partial^2 \psi}{\partial t^2}$

Consider this solution to the wave equation: $\psi = \psi_0 \cos(\omega t - \beta x)$. This travels from left to right. If it was $+\beta x$ it would travel from right to left.
$\beta$ is the propagation constant, occasionally called the wavenumber k. It is the spatial equivalent to the angular frequency.

If we substitute into the wave equation, we get that: $v=\frac{\omega}{\beta}=f\lambda$ = the phase velocity
This assumes that c is a constant, but we know that it varies with frequency, as $n=\frac{c}{v}$

A dispersive wave means that the velocity is a function of frequency $c(\omega)$

Considering two arbitrary waves:
$\psi_1 = \psi_0 \cos(\omega_1 t - \beta_1 x)$
$\psi_2 = \psi_0 \cos(\omega_2 t - \beta_2 x)$
Summing them and using an appropriate angle formula, we get:
$\psi=2\psi_0\cos[(\frac{\omega_1+\omega_2}{2})t-(\frac{\beta_1 + \beta_2}{2})x]\cos[(\frac{\omega_1-\omega_2}{2})t-(\frac{\beta_1 - \beta_2}{2})x]$
We can see that it has an average term and a modulation term

The high frequency average term is modulated into a sequence of low frequency packets 
The speed of information is the speed of these packets as that's where the information is.

Group velocity - the velocity of these packets = $v_g = \frac{\omega}{\beta}=\frac{\omega_1-\omega_2}{\beta_1-\beta_2}$
In the limit of small differences: $v_g=\frac{d\omega}{d\beta}$

Relativity says information cannot travel faster than the speed of light.
For a medium that is non-dispersive, the group velocity can be taken as the phase velocity

If the wavelength is long compared with the physical length of the system we are looking at, then we can consider the current to be behaving as an incompressible fluid.