A black body is an idealised object which completely absorbs all radiation incident upon it, and emits the largest amount of energy per unit area possible for a given temperature

The maximum rate at which a body can radiate energy is given by Stefan-Boltzmann Law:
$$E_b=\sigma T^4$$
$\sigma = 5.67\times10^{-8} Wm^{-2}K^{-4}$, the Stefan-Boltzbann constant
$E_b$ is the black body emissive power, in $Wm^{-2}$

The monochromatic emissive power of a black body is like a probabilistic distribution:
$E_{b\lambda}=\frac{c_1\lambda^{-5}}{e^{c_2/\lambda T}-1}$, and $E_b=\int_0^{\infty}E_{b\lambda}d\lambda = \sigma T^4$

As you increase the temperature, there's more emission, and it tends to be at shorter wavelengths:
$$\lambda_{max}=\frac{2897.6}{T}\mu m$$

Real surfaces - 
The emissivity of a real body, $\epsilon_{\lambda}$, is the ratio of the monochromatic emissive power of the body over the monochromatic emissive power of a black body.
The monochromatic emissivity is usually a function of the wavelength of radiation
The total emissivity is given by:
$$\epsilon=\frac{E}{E_b}=\frac{\int_0^{\infty}\epsilon_{\lambda}E_{b\lambda}d\lambda}{\sigma T^4}$$
In general, emissivity is a function of temperature

Grey body -
A grey body is one such that the monochromatic emissivity is independent of wavelength. $\epsilon_{\lambda}=\epsilon$

* $\rho$ reflectivity
* $\alpha$ absorptivity
* $\tau$ transmissivity
We will be mostly working with opaque bodies where $\tau=0$
$\rho + \alpha + \tau = 1$
Most objects will be considered to be diffuse reflectors, where the light is reflected equally in all directions

Kirchoff's Identity:
$\epsilon=\alpha$. The absorptivity is the same as the emissivity. This just comes from quantum mechanics, with the probability of a photon being absorbed is equally to the probability that it will be emitted.

G - Irradiation. The total radiation incident on a surface per unit time and per unit area
J - Radiosity. The total radiation leaving a surface per unit time and per unit area
$$J=\epsilon E_b +\rho G$$
The radiation leaving a body is the sum of the radiation originating from the body due to its temperature and the reflected part of the incoming radiation.

If we assume non-transmissivity, $\rho=1-\alpha=1-\epsilon \Rightarrow G=\frac{J-\epsilon E_b}{1-\epsilon}$
The net radiation leaving a surface per unit area per time: $\dot{Q}/A = J-G$
$\dot{Q}=\frac{E_b-J}{(1-\epsilon)/\epsilon A}$
We can analogous imagine this as a voltage difference of $E_b-J$ and a current of $\dot{Q}$

Radiative Exchange Between Surfaces:
View factors: $F_{12}$ is the fraction of energy leaving surface 1 that arrives at surface 2.
It is a purely geometric property. If radiation can travel from 1 to 2, it can also travel from 2 to 1 along the same path. For this reason, we have the reciprocity relationship: $A_1F_{12}=A_2F_{21}$

Net exchange: $\dot{Q}_{12}=J_1A_1F_{12}-J_2A_2F_{21}=\frac{J_1-J_2}{1/A_1F_{12}}$
We can again think of this in terms of circuits, with $J_1-J_2$ as the voltage difference
