Very few (10-15%) firms profit, exceed the cost of capital
Michael Porter business strategy key points:

* Operational effectiveness is not strategy
Rapid diffusion of best practice. Benchmarking against other firms leads to copying and lack of distinctiveness
You need to focus on sustainable advantage - be different from other firms

* Strategy rests on unique activities
Customer offerings should rest on capabilities, not marketing slogans. This is called strategic position. Emerges from one or more of:
1) Variety based - scope of activities to secure efficiency - E.g. Primark. Very low cost
2) Needs based - tailored to needs of target customer - E.g. Selfridges
3) Access based - right place at the right time - e.g. car rentals at airport
Avoid straddling between multiple - stuck in the middle with middling costs and middling pricing power
Strategic position should require choice, take priority over growth. Double down on your strategic position. Remain distinctive.

* Sustainable strategic position rests on trade-offs
If your differentiated strategy works, you will be imitated.
Barriers to imitation: 
1) Brand image (e.g. Disney) - in people's hearts and minds
2) Commitments - monetary barrier to entry
3) Tight co-ordination and control - most firms are badly run. Hard to make a well run firm

* Fit drives advantage and sustainability
Types of fit: Simple consistency between activity and strategy - optimisation of effort - reinforcing activities
Over time you are going to be able to add more layers to your business

Porter's five forces:
1) Rivalry among existing competitors
2) Bargaining power of suppliers
3) Threat of substitute products - buyers’ propensity to substitute
4) Bargaining power of buyers - power of buyer to set the price - more buyers, less price setting ability
5) Threat of new entrants - capital requirements for entering the industry
The job of a firm is to weaken these forces
Five forces analysis can only be conducted when relevant competitor sets have been identified.

Diversification is an inverted U curve for performance, there should be a small amount of diversification with a linking thread. Sharing activities and resources leads to unit cost savings. However it generated costs of coordination, compromise and inflexibility.

Theories of competitive advantage: Both Porter and Barney agree that it depends on uniqueness.
Adner believes that it depends on the relationships and ecosystem of the firm. McGrath says advantages are temporary, a firm should be well placed to enter fast and exit fast from advantages.

Firms that often don't have much strategic intention may label themselves as "agile"
Barney states that a firm should be: valuable, rare, inimitable and organised to sustain a competitive advantage
Examples of VRI resources:
Brand, Enforceable IP, Relationships, Effective culture of execution, Location, Capability

Using the VRIO to generate strategies:
Identify the core, the core gives you a reason to win, the core gives a rationale for:
* Market development, Product development, Business model innovation (we'll win because...)

Ansoff Matrix - tells firms not to try new products and new markets - diversification

Relationships between firms in ecosystems - not predatory
Can also work with customers who are redesigning their products
Complementary firms can cooperate - e.g. theatre and cinema

Agility advantage: Quickest to launch and ramp up, exploit for the right amount of time, then reconfigure and disengage quickly
Strong agility must be conclusive, and ramp up speed must be decisive. Resource allocation must be dynamic. Do not be afraid to self-cannibalise if it's not working.



Modern marketing is characterized by “customer orientation” which means all marketing practices aim at better satisfying customers’ needs

Successful products tend to satisfy customers’ both rational need (e.g. ease of use, convenient) and emotional needs (e.g. cool, stylish)

ESG - Environmental, Social and Governance. ESG should be the focal point of every step or element of such a marketing plan and subsequent implementation
The second step in marketing strategic planning is market segmentation

A brand positioning set should include:
* The target customers
* The competitive set (a group of businesses that are considered direct competitors in a specific market)
* The unique value proposition offered by the brand (point of difference)
* Evidence of reason to believe

A customer insight explains the motivating factor that underlies the customer's behaviour
