Analogue signals are continuous in time and amplitude. Digital signals are discrete in time and amplitude
Digitisation involves two steps: Sampling (discretising the time axis), and Quantisation (discretising the signal amplitude axis)

Why is digital better?
* More robust, as regenerators can be used to recover and retransmit a digital signal before it excessively degrades.
* Error correcting codes can correct bit errors
* Easier to perform encryption

Remember to sample correctly we need to use a sampling frequency at least twice as large as the bandwidth of the signal.

**Quantisation**
Uniform quantisation:
1) Assign levels to the amplitude axis
2) Assign bit representations to the levels
3) Assign each sample to the closest level

Sampling can be lossless if done correctly. Quantisation is always lossy.
The error/ quantisation noise is defined as $e_Q(z)=z-Q(z)$ where $z$ is the original and $Q(z)$ is the quantised value.
We assume that the $e_Q(z)$ is uniformly distributed over $[-\Delta/2, \Delta /2]$

The noise power $N_Q=E[e^2_Q]=\int_{-\Delta/2}^{\Delta/2}u^2 \frac{1}{\Delta}du=\frac{\Delta^2}{12}$. The RMS value is $\Delta / \sqrt{12}$

If the signal being quantised is a sinusoid, the signal power is $V^2/2$, with RMS $V/\sqrt{2}$
The signal to noise ratio is:$$SNR=\frac{\text{signal power}}{\text{noise power}}=\frac{(\text{RMS signal})^2}{(\text{RMS noise})^2}=\frac{V^2/2}{\Delta^2/12}$$
An n-bit uniform quantiser has $2^n$ levels, and step size $\Delta = 2V/2^n$
Hence the SNR is $3\times 2^{2n-1}=(1.76+6.02n)dB$
The larger the n, the better the SNR but the more bits you have to transmit

The bit rate, $R=n 2W$

Non-uniform quantisation (or companding) - much smaller bit rates can be achieved through non-uniform quantisation, so smaller step size for smaller signal, and larger for larger.

